Write a proper readme (#1109)
FabricMC/fabric: README.md

# Fabric API

Essential hooks for modding with Fabric.

Fabric API is the library for essential hooks and interoperability mechanisms for Fabric mods. Examples include:

- Exposing functionality that is useful but difficult to access for many mods such as particles, biomes and dimensions
- Adding events, hooks and APIs to improve interopability between mods.
- Essential features such as registry synchronization and adding information to crash reports.
- An advanced rendering API designed for compatibility with optimization mods and graphics overhaul mods.

> Also check out [Fabric Loader](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-loader), the (mostly) version independent mod loader that powers Fabric. Fabric API is a mod like any other fabric mod which requires Fabric Loader to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also check out [Fabric Loader](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-loader), the (mostly) version-independent mod loader that powers Fabric. Fabric API is a mod like any other Fabric mod which requires Fabric Loader to be installed.
```

For support and discussion for both developers and users, visit [the Fabric Discord server](https://discord.gg/v6v4pMv).

## Using Fabric API

> To use fabric api, download Fabric API from [Curseforge](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/fabric-api) or [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Fabric API, download it from [CurseForge](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/fabric-api) or [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric/releases).
```

The downloaded jar file should be placed in your `mods` folder.

## Getting Started With Development

> To setup a Fabric development environment, check out the [fabric example mod](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-example-mod) and follow the instructions there. The Example mod should already include Fabric API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To setup a Fabric development environment, check out the [Fabric example mod](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-example-mod) and follow the instructions there. The example mod already depends on Fabric API.
```

To include all of Fabric API in a mod development environment, add the following to your `dependencies` block in the gradle buildscript:

> **Groovy DSL**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Groovy DSL

```

```groovy
modImplementation "net.fabricmc.fabric-api:fabric-api:FABRIC_API_VERSION"
```

> **Kotlin DSL**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kotlin DSL

```

```kotlin
modImplementation("net.fabricmc.fabric-api:fabric-api:FABRIC_API_VERSION")
```

> Individual modules from Fabric API may be resolved via the `fabricApi` extension in loom for a smaller dependency footprint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Individual modules from Fabric API may be resolved via the `fabricApi` extension in Loom for a smaller dependency footprint:
```

> **Groovy DSL**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Groovy DSL

```

```groovy
// Make a collection of all api modules we wish to use
Set<String> apiModules = [
    "fabric-api-base",
    "fabric-command-api-v1",
    "fabric-lifecycle-events-v1",
    "fabric-networking-v0"
]

// Add each module as a dependency
apiModules.forEach {
    modImplementation(fabricApi.module(it, FABRIC_API_VERSION))
}
```

> **Kotlin DSL**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kotlin DSL

```

```kotlin
// Make a set of all api modules we wish to use
setOf(
    "fabric-api-base",
    "fabric-command-api-v1",
    "fabric-lifecycle-events-v1",
    "fabric-networking-v0"
).forEach {
    // Add each module as a dependency
    modImplementation(fabricApi.module(it, FABRIC_API_VERSION))
}
```

<!--Linked to gradle documentation on properties-->
Gradle properties may be used to catalog dependency versions in a single `gradle.properties` file at the root of a project. More information is available [here](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html#declare_properties_in_gradle_properties_file).

## Contributing

See something Fabric API doesn't support, a bug or something that may be useful? We welcome contributions to improve Fabric API.

Check out [the Contributing guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md)*.

\* The contributing guidelines are work in progress

## Modules

Fabric API is designed to be modular for ease of updating. This also has the advantage of splitting up the codebase into smaller chunks.

> Each module contains it's own `README.md`* explaining the module's purpose and additional info on using the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each module contains its own `README.md`* explaining the module's purpose and additional info on using the module.
```

> \* The readme for each module is being worked on, not every module has a readme at the moment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\* The README for each module is being worked on; not every module has a README at the moment
```

# Fabric API

Essential hooks for modding with Fabric.

Fabric API is the library for essential hooks and interoperability mechanisms for Fabric mods. Examples include:

- Exposing functionality that is useful but difficult to access for many mods such as particles, biomes and dimensions
- Adding events, hooks and APIs to improve interopability between mods.
- Essential features such as registry synchronization and adding information to crash reports.
- An advanced rendering API designed for compatibility with optimization mods and graphics overhaul mods.

Also check out [Fabric Loader](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-loader), the (mostly) version-independent mod loader that powers Fabric. Fabric API is a mod like any other Fabric mod which requires Fabric Loader to be installed.

For support and discussion for both developers and users, visit [the Fabric Discord server](https://discord.gg/v6v4pMv).

## Using Fabric API

> To use Fabric API, download it from [CurseForge](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/fabric-api) or [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric/releases).

Reviewer 2: I think this needs to describe the kind of use, i.e. playing with fabric mods vs using fabric api for developing mods.

The downloaded jar file should be placed in your `mods` folder.

## Getting Started With Development

To setup a Fabric development environment, check out the [Fabric example mod](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-example-mod) and follow the instructions there. The example mod already depends on Fabric API.

To include all of Fabric API in a mod development environment, add the following to your `dependencies` block in the gradle buildscript:

### Groovy DSL

```groovy
modImplementation "net.fabricmc.fabric-api:fabric-api:FABRIC_API_VERSION"
```

### Kotlin DSL

```kotlin
modImplementation("net.fabricmc.fabric-api:fabric-api:FABRIC_API_VERSION")
```

> Individual modules from Fabric API may be resolved via the `fabricApi` extension in Loom for a smaller dependency footprint:

Reviewer 2: This isn't very clear IMO, one may not recognize that "all of Fabric API" above means all modules and that the individual modules added here are related.

I'd change the wording to something like "To include the full Fabric API with all modules in a mod [...]" and "Alternatively, modules from Fabric API can be specified individually via the [...]"

### Groovy DSL

```groovy
// Make a collection of all api modules we wish to use
Set<String> apiModules = [
    "fabric-api-base",
    "fabric-command-api-v1",
    "fabric-lifecycle-events-v1",
    "fabric-networking-v0"
]

// Add each module as a dependency
apiModules.forEach {
    modImplementation(fabricApi.module(it, FABRIC_API_VERSION))
}
```

### Kotlin DSL

```kotlin
// Make a set of all api modules we wish to use
setOf(
    "fabric-api-base",
    "fabric-command-api-v1",
    "fabric-lifecycle-events-v1",
    "fabric-networking-v0"
).forEach {
    // Add each module as a dependency
    modImplementation(fabricApi.module(it, FABRIC_API_VERSION))
}
```

<!--Linked to gradle documentation on properties-->

> Gradle properties may be used to catalog dependency versions in a single `gradle.properties` file at the root of a project. More information is available [here](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html#declare_properties_in_gradle_properties_file).

Reviewer 2: Difficult to follow IMO, could state something like "Instead of hardcoding version constants all over the build script, [...]"

# Fabric API

Essential hooks for modding with Fabric.

Fabric API is the library for essential hooks and interoperability mechanisms for Fabric mods. Examples include:

- Exposing functionality that is useful but difficult to access for many mods such as particles, biomes and dimensions
- Adding events, hooks and APIs to improve interopability between mods.
- Essential features such as registry synchronization and adding information to crash reports.
- An advanced rendering API designed for compatibility with optimization mods and graphics overhaul mods.

Also check out [Fabric Loader](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-loader), the (mostly) version independent mod loader that powers Fabric. Fabric API is a mod like any other fabric mod which requires Fabric Loader to be installed.

> For support and discussion for both developers and users, visit [the Fabric Discord server](https://discord.gg/v6v4pMv).

Reviewer 3: Maybe Link [https://fabricmc.net/discuss/](https://fabricmc.net/discuss/)?

Author: The discuss page is actually a bit out of date since most development questions I see are on discord.

Reviewer 2: We can take care of this link after the website is reworked.

    "fabric-lifecycle-events-v1",
    "fabric-networking-v0"
]

// Add each module as a dependency
apiModules.forEach {
    modImplementation(fabricApi.module(it, FABRIC_API_VERSION))
}
```

**Kotlin DSL**
```kotlin
// Make a set of all api modules we wish to use
setOf(
    "fabric-api-base",
    "fabric-command-api-v1",
    "fabric-lifecycle-events-v1",
    "fabric-networking-v0"
).forEach {
    // Add each module as a dependency
    modImplementation(fabricApi.module(it, FABRIC_API_VERSION))
}
```

<!--Linked to gradle documentation on properties-->
Gradle properties may be used to catalog dependency versions in a single `gradle.properties` file at the root of a project. More information is available [here](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html#declare_properties_in_gradle_properties_file).

## Contributing

See something Fabric API doesn't support, a bug or something that may be useful? We welcome contributions to improve Fabric API.

Check out [the Contributing guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md)*.

\* The contributing guidelines are work in progress
<!-- relative link will be fixed once as part of fabric repo, needs testing in fork -->

> <!--

Reviewer 3: Why is this commented out?

Author: I need to drop those comments

For support and discussion for both developers and users, visit [the Fabric Discord server](https://discord.gg/v6v4pMv).

## Using Fabric API to play with mods

Make sure you have install fabric loader first. More information about installing Fabric Loader can be found [here](https://fabricmc.net/use/).

To use Fabric API, download it from [CurseForge](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/fabric-api) or [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric/releases).

The downloaded jar file should be placed in your `mods` folder.

## Using Fabric API to develop mods

To setup a Fabric development environment, check out the [Fabric example mod](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-example-mod) and follow the instructions there. The example mod already depends on Fabric API.

> To include the full Fabric API with all modules in a mod, add the following to your `dependencies` block in the gradle buildscript:

Reviewer 2: The removal of development environment makes this tentatively wrong now, either "include [...] in the dev env" or "to use the full fabric api..."
